{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f229\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f230\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f232\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f233\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f234\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f235\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f236\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f245\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}
{\f246\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f248\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f249\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f250\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}
{\f251\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f252\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author Frances Mary Cowan}{\operator Frances Mary Cowan}
{\creatim\yr2004\mo3\dy27\hr12\min17}{\revtim\yr2004\mo3\dy27\hr12\min27}{\version2}{\edmins10}{\nofpages21}{\nofwords4056}{\nofchars23124}{\nofcharsws28397}{\vern8247}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \psz1\linex0\sectdefaultcl 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\f2\fs20 DADA DADA?
\par 
\par Above the stage a mannequin is suspended wearing a judges' robes (or other costume to be decided).
\par 
\par An 'art' exhibition on the walls and strange things on the tables.
\par 
\par The audience will preferably be seated at cafe style tables. \'caAt some tables will be ghost-plants who will only be activated when the show starts.
\par 
\par In the middle of the room Chris Sciueref wearing a black balaclava and a bowler hat is shadow boxing (quite violently).
\par 
\par Andrew Southern dressed as a satanic Nijinski wearing shades performs balletic moves and freezes. Perhaps he leaps between tables like a giant cat.
\par 
\par The other actors move among the audience, lead them to tables shining torches "accidentally" sometimes in people's eyes. \'caActors ask 'guests' the most incredibly personal questions or insult them etc. \'ca
'Elsa' (the Rrose Selavy character) performs her strange rituals with a bell. \'caIn____ the filmed version some of these will be directed at the camera-operators.
\par 
\par MUSIC is played on strange instruments.
\par 
\par Bells ring, alarms go off, mobiles ring.
\par 
\par Actors and plants make animal noises. \'caThe effect is unnerving and tense.
\par 
\par Bedlam.
\par 
\par The lights flash on and off. \'caWill there be a power cut?
\par 
\par Someone stands at the front of the stage with a large placard saying "PARIS 1920".
\par 
\par Plants shout out "oh yeah!" \'ca"Yeah right!" \'ca"Who are you kidding" "Nah mate it's 2005 innit - or what.. 6 already..how time flies" "Yeah! Backwards".
\par 
\par A bottle is thrown at the stage and smashes. \'caA worried security guard runs on and sweeps it up looking around as if he may become a target.
\par 
\par \'ca"Get on with it!" "Why are we waiting"
\par 
\par The audience needs to think that the group has totally lost control of proceedings.
\par 
\par The two women actors gets up on the stage and do a blood-curdling shriek (as in the manifestos) a la Diamanda.
\par LONE VOICE (Chris Sciueref: CS) with a megaphone from the back of the room starts the DADA MANIFESTO while m___\'e8arching slowly forward:
\par 
\par CS 
\par 
\par No more artists
\par 
\par Maybe two take up the chant.
\par 
\par No more writers, no more musicians
\par 
\par The other actors gradually move towards the stage joining in the chanting
\par 
\par No more sculptors,  no more religions,
\par no more royalists, no more imperialists,
\par no more anarchists, no more socialists,
\par no more politicians, no more bosses,
\par no more workers, no more aristocrats,
\par no more armies, no more police
\par 
\par CS
\par 
\par Shut the fuck up!!!!!!
\par No more ANYTHING!
\par 
\par ALL
\par 
\par No more anything...NOTHING NOTHING NOTHING!!!!!!!!!!
\par 
\par Sudden and long Silence
\par 
\par PLANT 1 (Lager lout)
\par 
\par Rubbish!
\par 
\par 
\par Laughter, atmosphere relaxes, some music....
\par 
\par The actors part to clear the way for MICHELLE OWOO (MOO) dressed in a shimmery cabaret slink dress. \'caShe stands at the m___\'f1ike as if she's going to start singing a cabaret number. \'caMaybe a few strummed bars from a guitar.
\par 
\par PLANT 2 (Arty type)
\par 
\par That's not DADA!!
\par 
\par MOO gives him a very nasty look. \'caSettles back into pose as if to start singing then very alarmingly completely loses her temper, produces a wrench which she brandishes and launches into
\par 
\par MOO
\par 
\par I'm gonna come down there and sort you out mate!
\par I'm gonna knock your rotten teeth out for a start
\par yes and I bet you lick so much arse your tongue's all covered in those nasty little sores.. I'll have that out too. \'caCome here my friend.. and I'll rip 
\par 
\par rips his shirt open
\par 
\par your abdomen open - full of lovely jobbly diarrhoea....
\par 
\par Astride him she holds her nose
\par 
\par 
\par I'll have your spleen out and your diabetic kidneys and ___BI'll 
\par mash them all up and sell them to the farmers for fertilizer ooooh
\par 
\par And then......I'll get your ugly, incontinent and cheesy little dick
\par  like this and WRENCH it off!
\par 
\par That'll put an end to your appetite for beauty, orgasms, sugar, philosophy, pepper and metaphysical and mathematical and poetical CUCUMBERS
\par 
\par mimes sticking a cucumber up his arse while jeering at his girlfriend
\par 
\par I'll have to disinfect you first though cos I don't know where you've been
\par  and give you a good fresh lick of paint... gloss... all over
\par 
\par The we'll have a lovely big bath in antiseptic VITRIOL
\par 
\par gets off him and starts walking away back to the stage
\par 
\par Oh I'm exhausted... you're making me so tired..
\par 
\par Turns back to audience
\par 
\par I'm going to have to warn you
\par 
\par It's US who are the murderers of all your little
\par new
\par born
\par babes
\par pause
\par 
\par And to end here's a son___\'fbg:
\par KiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKiKi
\par As if this has out her into a visionary trance, walks back into the audience
\par 
\par Look!  There\'d5s  God with a nightingale for a horse...
\par He's sooooooooooooo handsome
\par No....he's ugly, ugly.
\par 
\par As if brought back down to earth by the smell of \'caPlant 2's girlfriend
\par 
\par 
\par Madam, your gob stinks....
\par 
\par sniffs
\par 
\par Of pimp's come...
\par Pimp's come if I'm not mistaken, Madam
\par .... but only in the morning
\par Cos in the evening it's more like
\par 
\par pretends to sample delicate perfume
\par 
\par the arse of an angel in love with a lily...
\par 
\par addresses other actors
\par 
\par Nice line that! \'capoetic!
\par 
\par To devastated Plant 2
\par 
\par Cheerio mate.
\par 
\par MOO goes back to stage. \'caAdopts cabaret pose again. \'caLights go down. \'ca
\par 
\par In darkness
\par 
\par MOO
\par 
\par Fuck this for a game of soldiers!
\par 
\par 
\par She disappears.
\par 
\par A lot of exaggerated banging and accidental knocks and \'d2fuck off\'d3 etc. as the scenery is \'d2changed.\'d3  ____Delay in lights coming up.   Dog barking from within the audience - the rest of the actors have 
smuggled themselves in among the audience, sitting at tables etc.  Whistles, sirens and fart cushions. Lights come up go back down.  Something sinister, perhaps a hanged man, is glimpsed , ghost train style..  Lights go back down.  One light, rather wobbl
y, a torch held by Claire standing on a chaise-longue, illuminates BRETON.  The following manifesto is delivered rather like a sermon or lecture. 
\par 
\par \'caBRETON
\par 
\par Historical anecdotes are not enormously important. 
\par  It\'d5s impossible to determine when and where DADA came into being.
\par 
\par PLANT/ACTOR
\par 
\par Who cares?
\par 
\par BRETON
\par 
\par   The name itself, all the better for being perfectly ambiguous, 
\par was just something one of us came up.
\par     Cubism was a school of painting, futurism a political movement:  
\par DADA is a state of mind.  
\par 
\par PLANT/ACTOR
\par 
\par Boring!
\par 
\par BRETON
\par 
\par To compare them  is patently either ignorant or pretentious.
\par     Free thinking in religious matters is nothing like a church.  
\par DAD____A is free thinking in artistic terms.
\par 
\par PLANT/ACTOR
\par 
\par Oooooooooooo!
\par 
\par BRETON
\par 
\par     As long as prayers are forcibly recited in schools 
\par under the guise of museum visits and textual analysis, 
\par we will rail 
\par 
\par PLANT/ACTOR
\par 
\par Ooooooooo! Rrrrrrrrail!
\par 
\par BRETON
\par 
\par rail against despotism and seek to disrupt the ceremony.
\par 
\par Pause, Breton scans the audience.  Has the intensity of a politician.
\par     
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par BRETON
\par 
\par DADA devotes itself to nothing, neither love nor work.  
\par It is unthinkable that a man should leave any trace 
\par of his existence on this earth.
\par 
\par Claire starts to wobble on chaise longue so light is wobbling on Breton. Some members of audience start to laugh.
\par 
\par PLANT/ACTOR
\par 
\par How...Illuminating!
\par 
\par  Plant stands up to take a bow at his magnificent pun.
\par 
\par Breton continues to speak cle____arly and forcibly.  He is not fazed by Claire's antics or the obvious antipathy to his intellectualism among the audience.
\par BRETON
\par     
\par DADA, acknowledging only instinct, 
\par condemns explanation in principle. 
\par 
\par 
\par He lends a slightly irritated supporting hand to wobbly Claire.
\par 
\par  According to Dada we should exercise no control over ourselves.  
\par 
\par Claire wobbles more manically.  Laughter in audience.
\par 
\par Those twin dogmas Morality and Taste!
\par 
\par Looks around the audience.  Lets go of Claire to gesticulate.
\par 
\par  - have done with them!
\par 
\par Claire  wobbles then falls off chaise longue to laughter and applause.  A slight laugh is detectable in Breton\'d5s voice as he finishes his manifesto:
\par 
\par Have done with them forever.
\par 
\par He helps wobbly Claire to her feet.  Amused in a paternalistic wa___6y.  A dim lig
ht comes up.  An actor dressed as a medical assistant brings a bedside lamp onto stage and puts it on a little table by the chaise longue.  Breton makes a discreet exit. Medical assistant walks off efficiently with a clacking of heels.
\par \'ca
\par Claire lies down o
n the chaise longue and closes her eyes, her hand over her eyes.  Andrew dressed as Freud creeps in and crouches behind the chaise longue staring over at Claire intently.   Claire very slowly uncovers her eyes and stares up as though oblivious of Andrew. 
 Something catatonic about both of them.
\par 
\par ___\'c8
\par ANDREW
\par 
\par What\'d5s your name?
\par 
\par CLAIRE
\par 
\par (shrugs)
\par 
\par ANDREW
\par 
\par Where are you?
\par 
\par CLAIRE
\par 
\par Le Grand Palais, Paris, Champs Elysees
\par 
\par ANDREW
\par 
\par What day is it?
\par 
\par CLAIRE
\par 
\par Thursday... February 1920
\par 
\par ANDREW
\par \tab 
\par What do you do for a living? 
\par 
\par CLAIRE
\par 
\par I used to plough the fields,  
\par I used to trim the vines.
\par \tab 
\par ANDREW
\par 
\par And your parents? 
\par 
\par 
\par CLAIRE
\par 
\par The father's a simpleton, void of intelligence; 
\par the mother too, they're as bad as each other; 
\par I had to do everything.
\par \tab 
\par 
\par ANDREW
\par 
\par A dozen eggs costs six francs;  how much is one egg?
\par 
\par CLAIRE
\par 
\par six francs.
\par 
\par Laughter in audience.
\par Claire laughs a rather manic laugh
\par 
\par ANDREW
\par 
\par Why are you laughing?  
\par 
\par CLAIRE
\par 
\par The others are making me laugh.
\par \tab 
\par ANDREW
\par 
\par Do you believe in God and the Holy Virgin? ___\'c2
\par 
\par CLAIRE
\par 
\par They always get the job done.
\par 
\par ANDREW
\par 
\par How do you know? 
\par 
\par CLAIRE
\par 
\par I just know.
\par 
\par ANDREW
\par 
\par Did you sleep well?
\par 
\par CLAIRE  (as if in a trance)
\par 
\par I dream of fighter planes
\par I dream of wild pigs
\par 
\par (Claire is becoming a bit hysterical but in a slow way)
\par 
\par I dream about falling down wells
\par about people chasing me, they want to hurt me.
\par 
\par (She claps her hand over her mouth, getting into a state of panic - Andrew smoothly moves onto chaise longue.  Puts his hand reassuringly on her leg.)
\par 
\par ANDREW
\par 
\par How do you rate yourself? - 
\par 
\par CLAIRE
\par  
\par (on an even keel again.  Looks at Andrew admiringly)
\par 
\par You're far too good for me. 
\par I...just...wilt........
\par 
\par (change of tone, rather brightly:)
\par 
\par I think I should get some X-rays. 
\par I was really intelligent up to last month.
\par \tab 
\par 
\par ANDREW
\par 
\par What do you yearn for? 
\par 
\par CLAIRE
\par 
\par I don't know.
\par 
\par They both stare into audience as if in a trance.   
\par MOO wanders up from audience and waves her hand in front of them.  
\par Chris marches on waving a p___\'ddiece of paper.  Clicks his heels.
\par 
\par CHRIS
\par 
\par (Fake German accent)
\par 
\par The author president was ill and mislaid his manifesto.  
\par To compensate we will reproduce an extract from 
\par \'d2The First celestial adventure of M. Antipyrine\'d3 
\par (Zurich, 1916 Dada Collection, now out of print).
\par This manifesto was read at the first Dada evening in Zurich, 
\par 14th July 1916 at the Waag Hall.
\par 
\par He stands to one side of the chaise longue.  Moo moves to the other.  Claire and Andrew sit bolt upright, still trancified, staring at audience.  Alex stands between them, behind the chaise longue.
\par 
\par CHRIS  (grandiose)
\par 
\par DADA is our intensity:  
\par 
\par MOO
\par 
\par it holds up inconsequential bayonets the German baby\'d5s Sumatral head 
\par 
\par ALEX
\par 
\par Dada is life without slippers or parallel; 
\par it is for - and against - unity 
\par and decidedly against the future;  
\par 
\par 
\par CLAIRE AND ANDREW
\par (emerging from their trance)
\par 
\par we wisely recognise that our brains will become 
\par cosy cushions, 
\par 
\par ALEX
\par (rambling)
\par 
\par that our anti-dogmatism is as exclusivist as a civ___\'cbil servant 
\par and that we are not free 
\par and cry freedom 
\par 
\par CHRIS
\par 
\par harsh necessity without discipline or morality and spit on humanity.   
\par 
\par ALEX
\par 
\par DADA remains in the European framework of weaknesses, 
\par 
\par MOO
\par 
\par it\'d5s still shit, but from now on we want to shit in different colours 
\par to decorate the art zoo of all consular flags.
\par 
\par CLAIRE 
\par (Now fully recovered)
\par     
\par We direct circuses and whistle among the winds of fairs, among convents, prostitutions, theatres, realities, feelings, restaurants.  
\par 
\par ALL
\par 
\par Hohi, hoho, bang, bang.
\par 
\par ANDREW
\par 
\par We declare the car... to be....a feeling
\par 
\par CLAIRE 
\par which quite us pampered in the slownesses of its abstractions and transatlantic liners and noises and ideas.  
\par 
\par CHRIS
\par 
\par because Dada exists for nobody 
\par and we want the whole world to understand this, 
\par because it is the balcony of Dada I assure you.  
\par From where you can hear military marches  -
\par 
\par ANDREW
\par 
\par (Moving his arms as if marching which is the \'d2slicing\'d3 he now refers to)
\par 
\par  - and desce____nd slicing the air like a seraphim
\par  to a public baths 
\par to have a piss 
\par and understand the parable
\par (pun on parabola so make this movement with arms).
\par 
\par MOO
\par 
\par Dada is neither madness, nor wisdom, nor irony, 
\par take a look dear bourgeois.
\par     
\par CLAIRE
\par 
\par (like mad infertile woman crazed with grief)
\par 
\par Art was a game of conkers, 
\par children strung together words with chimes at the end, 
\par then they started crying and shouted out the stanza
\par  and put dolly\'d5s booties on it 
\par and the stanza became queen to do a little expiration 
\par and the queen became a whale without an explanation, 
\par the children ran and ran with restricted respiration.
\par     
\par 
\par ANDREW
\par (grandiose)
\par 
\par Then the great ambassadors of feeling came along 
\par and shouted historically in chorus:
\par 
\par ALL (except Alex)
\par (half singing in ____posh operatic way, labouring the very forced and awful rhymes)
\par 
\par     Psychology psychology hihi
\par     Science Science Science
\par     Long live France
\par     We are not na\bullet ve
\par     We are consecutive
\par     We are exclusive
\par     We are not simple
\par 
\par (in normal speaking voice)
\par we are perfectly capable of debating intelligence.
\par 
\par ANDREW
\par 
\par     But we, DADA, we are not of their opinion, 
\par as art isn\'d5t serious, I assure you, 
\par and if we exhibit crime in order to learnedly say vegetation, 
\par it is in order to give you pleasure, dear listeners, 
\par 
\par (sudden shift from authoritative and theoretical to become embarrassingly sentimental and demanding)
\par 
\par dear, dear listeners
\par I love you so, I love you so, 
\par I assure you and adore you.
\par 
\par 
\par Andrew remains for an unnaturally long time smiling sicklily at th____e audience.  PLANT in audience (confused)
\par 
\par PLANT
\par 
\par But what IS DADA?
\par 
\par 
\par The cast immediately join ranks presenting a forceful united front in a line across the stage.  
\par 
\par CHRIS
\par 
\par DADA philosophy, Chapter 1
\par 
\par To an accompaniment of whistles and bangings they harangue the audience like market traders with their definitions of DADA. But these are not decipherable words, only sounds babbling sound poetry with  the word DADA intermittently recognisable.  
\par 
\par SOUND BABBLE SOUNDS LIKE EXPLANATION WITH WORDS DADADADADA SOMETIMES HEARD
\par 
\par 
\par This babble continues for perhaps 30 seconds then these words emerge.  The delivery is matter-of-fact, perhaps at times a little Mills and Boon for the first section:
\par 
\par CLAIRE
\par 
\par DADA has blue eyes, a pale face and curly hair; 
\par has the English look of young men who are keen on sport.
\par 
\par MOO
\par DADA has melancholy fingers - the Spanish look
\par 
\par CLAIRE
\par 
\par DADA has a small nose - the Russian look
\par 
\par MOO
\par 
\par DADA has a porcelain arse - the French look
\par 
\par CLAIRE
\par 
\par DADA dreams of Byron and Greece
\par 
\par ANDREW
\par \tab 
\par DADA____ dreams of Shakespeare and Charlie Chaplin
\par 
\par ALEX
\par 
\par DADA dreams of Nietzsche and Jesus-Christ
\par \tab 
\par CHRIS
\par 
\par DADA dreams of Barr\u143\'8fs and sunsets
\par 
\par CLAIRE
\par 
\par DADA has a brain like a water-lily
\par 
\par ALEX
\par 
\par DADA has a brain like a brain
\par 
\par CLAIRE
\par 
\par DADA is... an artichoke door knob
\par 
\par MOO
\par 
\par DADA's face is broad and slender and its voice is arched like the sirens' tone.
\par \tab 
\par CHRIS
\par 
\par DADA is a magic lantern.
\par \tab 
\par ANDREW
\par 
\par DADA's tail has been twisted into an eagle's beak.
\par \tab 
\par MOO
\par 
\par DADA's philosophy is sad and merry, indulgent and wide.  
\par 
\par ALEX
\par 
\par Venetian crystals, jewels, valves, bibliophiles, voyages, poetic novels, restaurants, mental illnesses, Louis XIII, dilettantism, the last operetta, sparkling star, peasant, a glass of beer d
owned a little at a time, a new specimen of dew, that's one aspe___\'efct of DADA!
\par 
\par CLAIRE
\par 
\par Uncomplications and uncertainties.
\par Changeable and highly strung, 
\par 
\par MOO
\par 
\par DADA is a hammock rocking a soothing sway.
\par ........  Chapter 2
\par 
\par extravagant descriptive gestures accompanies the following poetic soliloquy - 
\par 
\par 
\par POETIC VOICE
\par 
\par A star falls upon a river, leaving a trail of replicas.  
\par Happiness and misery with a silent voice whisper in our ears. 
\par \tab Black ...or shining sun.
\par \tab Here in the bottom of the boat we're oblivious of the course we should choose.
\par \tab A tunnel... and return.
\par \tab Ecstasy becoming anguish in the idyll of domesticity.
\par \tab Beds ever paler than the dead, despite man's despairing cries.
\par \tab DADA embraces in spring water and its kisses must be water meeting fire.
\par \tab DADA is Tristan Tzara.
\par \tab DADA is Francis Picabia.
\par \tab DADA is everything as it equally loves the pure at heart, nightfall, sighing foliage and the entwined lovers drinking with abandon from the divine double wellsprings of Love and Beauty!
\par 
\par ALEX
\par 
\par CHAPTER 3..........
\par DADA has always been twenty-two, 
\par it's slimm___~ed down a bit in the last twenty-two years.  
\par DADA is married to a peasant girl who loves birds.
\par 
\par Two actors hold signs saying Chapter 4.  There is some very strange music perhaps heralding the arrival of DADA.
\par 
\par They part to reveal:  projected images of purple chrysanthemums wearing parisian masks and from the darkness at the back of the stage, like a 
sedan chair, the vision of a white figure (perhaps a Leigh Bowery type of appearance but definitely totally featureless and scarily white) with a featureless white mask with no eyes and no mouth carried in, seated on a purple peplumed cushion and waving r
egally. 
\par 
\par 
\par A voice as if the narrator of a wildlife film - David Attenborough ?- or an academic
\par 
\par VOICE
\par 
\par CHAPTER 5  ......Human emotions appear to it on the banks of optimism, 
\par torn to shreds by Baudelaire's antique poetry.
\par 
\par The faceless masked figure faces the audience.  
\par 
\par ANDREW
\par 
\par \'d2Oh___\'df God I'm turning into an imbecile!\'d3 cries Dada
\par 
\par The cortege walks backwards so DADA retreats while keeping perfectly motionless and facing the audience.   The figure and the sedan chair are absorbed into darkness by the end of the following lines.
\par 
\par ANDREW
\par 
\par The wish to fall asleep.
\par To have a manservant.
\par An imbecile manservant 
\par at the other end of the chamber.
\par 
\par Moo hands on hips complaining and strident
\par 
\par MOO
\par (complaining harridan)
\par 
\par Final fucking chapter
\par the same fucking manservant opened the fucking door
\par and - as usual - wouldn\'d5t fucking let us in...
\par 
\par ANDREW
\par (mystery)
\par 
\par Far off we could make out the voice of Dada.
\par 
\par Chris marches on with another kind of fanfare
\par 
\par CHRIS
\par 
\par And now.. for your edification...direct from Zurich....
\par  Monsieur DADA himself.
\par 
\par Alex, pretending to be Tristan Tzara, wearing a monocle and black hair, tweed jacket and plus fours, in stark contrast to the preceding manifestation of DADA, marches on looking very pleased with himself.  Perhaps like a clown with ___\'fb
whoopy noises and trumpet blasts.  Bows exaggeratedly.  Andrew comes hurrying on propelled from backstage as though he\'d5s been watching football and forgotten he was meant to be on.
\par 
\par ALEX
\par 
\par Take a good look at me!
\par I'm stupid, I'm a joker, I'm a clown.
\par Take a good look at me!
\par I'm ugly, my face is expressionless, I'm short.
\par I'm just like all of you! 
\par 
\par Looks up at tall Andrew but refuses to acknowledge irony.
\par 
\par But before you look, ask yourselves this:  
\par are you shooting those arrows of liquid sentiment 
\par through the iris or fly shit?  
\par Have you considered that the eyes of your belly 
\par may be slices of tumours whose starings 
\par will one day seep out in the form of venereal discharge
\par from some part of your body? 
\par You view things with your navel - 
\par why are you trying to protect it from the ridiculous spectacle 
\par we're putting on specially for it?  
\par 
\par ANDREW
\par 
\par A little bit lower......cunts... with teeth!.......
\par gulping everything down .... the poetry of eternity, love
\par ......pure love, of course - bleeding beefsteaks and____ oil painting.
\par All who see and understand readily toe the line 
\par between poetry and love, between beefsteak and painting.  
\par 
\par ALEX
\par 
\par They'll be swallowed up, they'll be swallowed up.
\par 
\par Pause.   Begins again with newsy tone.
\par 
\par ANDREW
\par 
\par I was recently accused of nicking some furs.  
\par They probably thought I was still hanging out with poets.  
\par With poets who satisfy their legitimate need 
\par for a chilly wank in warm furs
\par 
\par ALEX AND ANDREW
\par 
\par H a h u H a H u H a H u 
\par H a h u H a H u H a H u
\par H a h u H a H u H a H u
\par HaaaaaaaaaHuuuuuuu
\par 
\par ALEX
\par 
\par I know some other equally purposeless pleasures.  
\par Give your family a ring and piss in the hole more usually reserved 
\par for musical, gastronomic and sacred nonsenses.
\par 
\par Alex looks rather pleased with himself at having thought of this one.
\par 
\par ALEX
\par 
\par DADA proposes 2 solutions:
\par 
\par ANDREW
\par 
\par NO MORE LOOKING
\par 
\par ALEX
\par 
\par NO MORE SPEAKING
\par 
\par ALEX AND ANDREW 
\par 
\par Don't look anymore.
\par    Don't speak anymore.
\par \tab 
\par ANDREW
\par 
\par Because I, 
\par 
\par (rapid staccato delivery:)
\par 
\par chameleon changing infiltration of convenient attitudes - 
\par 
\par (normal)
\par multicoloured opinions to suit all occasions, size and price - 
\par 
\par I always do the opposite of what I suggest to others. 
\par 
\par ALEX
\par 
\par I've forgotten something:
\par Where? Why? How?
\par What I mean is:
\par 
\par ANDREW
\par 
\par (rapid staccato delivery:)
\par 
\par ventilator of cold examples will serve the cavalcade's fragile snake and ....
\par 
\par (normal)
\par 
\par I have never had the pleasure of seeing you___\'ed - 'mon cher' - rigeeeeeeeeeeed
\par 
\par (as if several different voices are competing for dominance in his speech)
\par 
\par the ear will come out of itself from the envelope 
\par like all marine equipment and 
\par products from the firm of Aa and Co 
\par chewing gum for example 
\par and dogs have blue eyes, 
\par I drink camomile, they drink the wind, 
\par DADA introduces new perspectives, 
\par 
\par when this is described, members of audience demonstrate the phenomena of slipping to the right and the left at corners of tables...
\par 
\par nowadays people sit at the corners of tables 
\par adopting positions which slip a little to the right and to the left, 
\par 
\par ALEX
\par 
\par this is why I am angry with Dada, 
\par 
\par (As if they\'d5ve suddenly jumped on a soapbox - and they do leap up onto something and start declaiming:  Alternating)
\par 
\par ANDREW AND ALEX
\par 
\par people everywhere should demand the suppression of Ds, 
\par eat some Aa, polish yourselves with Aa toothpaste, 
\par dress yourselves in Aa designs.  
\par Aa is the handkerchief and sexual organ blowing its nose,
\par  rapid collapse - in ru___\'fcbber - without noise, 
\par has no need for manifestos or address book, 
\par gives a 25% discount 
\par dress yourselves in Aa designs 
\par it has blue eyes.
\par 
\par They jump down and move to crowd round, but not obscure, Moo seated at a small table, as if in a cafe.   
\par 
\par Spotlight on MOO who is sitting  at a little round cafe table perhaps in the audience, writing her thoughts as she speaks on a pad.  Her tone is somewhat monotonous
\par 
\par MOO
\par 
\par The table is round, the sky is bright, 
\par the spider is tiny, the glass is transparent, 
\par eyes come in ten different colours, 
\par Louis Aragon has the Military Cross, 
\par Tzara hasn't got syphilis
\par 
\par (Looks at ALEX/TZARA who is still on stage.  Alex makes V-sign)
\par 
\par elephants are silent, the rain falls,
\par 
\par The noise of cars whizzing past fast off 
\par 
\par a car travels more easily than a star, 
\par I am thirsty, 
\par 
\par (as if vaguely notices is in a draught)
\par 
\par draughts are pointless, poets are pin cushions - 
\par or pigs, 
\par 
\par considers pad as if for the first time
\par 
\par writing paper is convenient, 
\par the stove is drawing well, 
\par daggers k___\'f7ill well,  
\par revolvers kill better, 
\par the air is still too deep.
\par 
\par (pause... then normal voice)
\par 
\par We swallow all of this and if we digest it 
\par we most certainly don't give a shit.
\par 
\par 
\par Attention back on the stage where Chris is in  poetic mood.  T
he actors take the piss out of him and as his poem progresses, they pull on sinister rubber S&M masks and start gradually and almost imperceptible lifting him (the exercise Claire showed the group) until by the end he is in a crucifixion position with arm
s over a broom handle.
\par 
\par CHRIS
\par 
\par Everything that is not me is incomprehensible.  
\par 
\par Whether sought on Pacific sands or 
\par gathered in the depths of my own existence, 
\par the shell that I press to my ear 
\par will ring with the same voice 
\par and I'll think it the voice of the sea 
\par and it will be but the sound of myself.
\par 
\par If I suddenly find it's no longer enough 
\par to hold every word in my hand like pretty pearly objects, 
\par every word will enable me to listen to the sea, 
\par and in the mirror of their sound will I find no image but m___\'a2y own.
\par 
\par However it may seem, language boils down to just this I 
\par and whenever I utter a word it divests itself 
\par of everything that isn't me until it becomes 
\par an organic noise through which my life unfolds.
\par 
\par There is only me in this world 
\par and if I sometimes lapse into believing that a woman exists 
\par I have but to lean my head on her breast 
\par to hear the sound of my heart and recognize myself. 
\par 
\par Feelings are only languages, 
\par enabling certain functions to be performed.
\par 
\par He is being lifted up gradually.  It is all very slow...
\par 
\par In my left pocket I carry a remarkably accurate self-portrait:  
\par a watch in burnished steel.  
\par It speaks, marks time and understands none of it.
\par 
\par Chris is now the crucified Christ with his arms over a broom handle.  It isn\'d5t clear if this is some erotic fetish game or mockery or reverence...leaving him crucified the other actors disappear into the wings
\par 
\par Everything that is me is incomprehensible.
\par 
\par ___\'acWait with Chris still on cross where he remains.  Crackling light going on and off - can be achieved by a naked light bulb being swung and sound effects.  Electric crackling/static turning into subdued lightening noises.
\par 
\par Alex comes striding on wearing what is recognisably a priestly coat but also looks kind of storm-trooperish. A bit Matrix like.  Moo and Claire are S&M nuns flanking him. 
\par 
\par ALEX
\par 
\par The most ancient and formidable enemy of Dada
\par .......... is called GOD!
\par 
\par MOO
\par \tab 
\par He intervenes between us and all things
\par .. and gets in the way.
\par 
\par CLAIRE
\par 
\par \tab His cheating little eyes show up when we get
\par to the bottom of a glass.
\par 
\par ALEX
\par 
\par \tab He screws our mistresses and sticks himself in 
\par between their skin and ours.
\par 
\par \tab He roosts on the shoulders of victorious generals, 
\par 
\par CLAIRE
\par 
\par old folks crowned with the downfalls of best-selling artists.   
\par 
\par ALEX
\par 
\par From way on high 
\par 
\par Points at crucified Chris
\par 
\par he draws adoring gazes to himself.
\par 
\par Ranting to the great delight of the nuns who encourage him with \'d2oh thankyou jesus!\'d5  \'d2Oh yes Lord!\'d3  \'d2Praise you jesus!\'d3 (like born again charismatic christians - their hands raised in holy bliss)
\par \tab 
\par He's the forger, the speculator, the deceiver, 
\par the great bully and the supreme stuffer of brains.
\par 
\par Nuns \'d2oh thank you Jesus\'d3 \'d2Praise the Lord\'d3
\par 
\par He poisons life for a bunch of imbeciles. 
\par 
\par Nuns \'d2Hallelujah\'d3 
\par 
\par God\rquote s a fool, 
\par 
\par Nuns go into a religious frenzy:  \'d2Praise God!\'d3
\par 
\par God\'d5s got goitre,
\par 
\par Ditto 
\par God struts about like a dandy, 
\par 
\par Ditto
\par 
\par God dresses to the left. 
\par 
\par Nuns fall and thrash about in a religious fit on floor - very sexual .  They continue to flutter prostrate.....then crawl to front of Alex to kneel at \'d2green belly\'d3
\par 
\par How many poets, painters, musicians - 
\par the most ignorant of all people - 
\par pull on a God every morning like a condom, 
\par and thus disguised extend a great green belly 
\par for the worship of the masses!
\par 
\par Nuns kneel in front of___\'86 him worshipping his belly but suggestive
\par 
\par \tab Well we're going to shout about it: 
\par  
\par Nuns leap to feet, flanking Alex, facing audience and punch the air with \'d2enough\'d3
\par 
\par ALL
\par 
\par ENOUGH 
\par 
\par ALEX
\par 
\par ..of all these annoying stinking gods 
\par festering like a disgusting verminous pea pod. 
\par 
\par Nuns whip out sprays like guns, each  holds a bottle of poison also marked 80% - would be good if these were smoking
\par 
\par MOO
\par 
\par \tab Let's QUICKLY carry out some corrosive (menacingly)
\par fumigations to purify the atmosphere 
\par 
\par CLAIRE
\par 
\par and scour the house 
\par with lashings of alcohol.
\par 
\par They spray their sprays manically - and give \'d2jesus\'d3 a good spraying too
\par 
\par MOO
\par 
\par Cover EVERYTHING in Dada bug powder!  
\par 
\par CLAIRE
\par 
\par No nonsense hygiene!
\par 
\par Drumming starts as they dance around in a tribal way spraying
\par 
\par ALEX (like a witch doctor)
\par 
\par Dada God-swatter
\par Dada God-swatter
\par Dada God-swatter
\par 
\par Dada omni-swatter
\par 
\par Dada anti taboo!
\par 
\par LIGHTS GO OUT
\par 
\par INTERVAL
\par 
\par ________HASH__\'84___
\par \tab _
\par Index______________________________________ _______D____FNTM_____Georgia_____________________________________________________________Geneva_________________________________________________________\'ff\'ff__
\par Lucida Grande_______________________________________________________Verdana__DADA DADA?
\par 
\par Above the stage a mannequin is suspended wearing a judges' robes (or other costume to be decided).
\par 
\par An 'art' exhibition on the walls and strange things on the tables.
\par 
\par The audience will preferably be seated at cafe style tables. \'caAt some tab
\par 
\par }}